OK so we saw the very basic syntax who made that ugly animated rainbow text.
Now I want to dive a bit deeper into some of the ways we can control or finesse the animations.
So here's a list of properties We'll talk about in a kind of group them into two categories.
The first are the very basic what I'm calling the usual suspects.
Most of these have an analog to transitions for example transition dasht duration which you've already
seen or a transition timing function or transition delay.
So those should be pretty familiar.
And we also saw animation name which is just how we specify what animation we're referring to.
So those are pretty basic but then there are some more specific ones that don't have analogues in the
transition side of things.
That includes iteration count film mode direction and place date.
So I want to talk about those next.
And rather than making a separate video for each one I decided to kind of put them together in a single
reference video.
I've made different code pens to illustrate how they work and we'll breeze through them hopefully.
So there are four properties.
We'll take a look at.
In addition to these which we've already seen and hopefully you feel comfortable with.
So the first one is animation iteration count which we actually have seen as well.
But I just wanted to bring this back up on to repeat it because it's pretty commonly used.
So it allows us to specify how many times you want an animation to run.
So I have a code pen that I've made to illustrate animation iteration count it's kind of a mouthful.
Currently it's set to infinite.
You'll notice this button is jiggling and it keeps going and going and going.
So the animation itself if you're curious is a combination of scaling and translating so it moves up
and down ever so slightly and grows and shrinks.
And that's essentially what makes a jiggle and the hardest part is getting the timing right.
I didn't make this myself.
This is copy or this is forked from an existing code pen.
It's really popular.
I think it's just called jiggle.
So if you want to see the original you can find that.
But what I want to focus on is iteration count.
So as you can see it's still going but I could change it to two and if I save.
OK there's was our first one.
Here's the second one.
Now it's done.
And I won't waste your time anymore.
But of course you could change this to be any other number that you wanted.
OK so that's animation iteration count.
Next up is animation direction.
And this one is a little bit less self-explanatory.
At least right off the bat.
Hence my subtitle let's just look at an example it'll be easier but it allows you to do is when you
have an animation to find you go from 0 to 100.
And what you could do is actually have it run in reverse if you wanted or you can have it Alternate
where it goes forward and then backwards and forwards and backwards.
But like I said it's easier to take a look at it in action.
So here's a demonstration.
So what I'm going to do first is actually turn off all animations.
So just with this rake here OK.
So I have three boxes one that has forward one that has reverse and one has alternate.
That's just the text right now being displayed but they also have classes.
So then I'm applying this animation slide right.
So they start here and they slide to the right.
Five hundred pixels translate x 500 pixels.
OK.
So that's that's it.
So without animation direction to turn that off and start the animation back up you'll see that they
all slide to the right and then start over and they continue forever.
I have iteration count set infinite.
So right now they're all uniform.
But if I uncomment this code that assigns animation direction to be reverse on this middle box using
the class reverse if I said that Dierich animation direction to be reverse I end up with this.
So they're in sync.
They're starting at the same time but this one instead starts at 100 and works backwards down to zero.
So it moves from right to left instead.
So that's actually very nice.
It allows you sometimes to reuse animations.
So if you want to have something happen mirrored on the left and right side or whatever it is you want
opposites you get the same animation just running in opposite direction.
You don't have to define a second animation.
You can run animation direction reverse and it does that for you.
And then that brings us to alternate.
And what alternate does is combine the two.
So it will run forward and then run backwards and then run forward and backwards and so on.
So if I uncomment this code you'll see that this bottom line focus on that goes backwards and forwards
and it keeps alternating these two continue in their single direction whether it's forward or reverse
alternate goes forward and then reverse.
Now iteration count doesn't have to be set to infinite for this to work.
I could change it to something like 3.
I just saved.
OK.
So there's our first one and the second one.
And now the third one.
Now it's done.
But you can see that the same direction is still playing the exact same way.
So that's unchanged.
That brings us to our next property which is animation film mode.
So this one is a bit different animation film mode.
We'll specify how an animation should apply styles before the animation actually starts.
And then after the animation ends and what I say before the animation starts that doesn't mean just
any time before the animation it means during the animation delay.
So there's a period where the animation is engaged but it's not actually playing.
If you have a delay.
So let me show you what I mean.
Here's an example.
I have for you out a bit so you can see them for paragraphs going across the page and all of them have
been assigned this animation that they start as green but this animation here takes them to yellow at
zero percent and then red at 100 percent.
So it looks like this as I hover there's a delay but you'll see it goes yellow and then red.
So the key thing that I want to point out is that there's a delay right now.
I scroll up animation to two seconds.
So I hover and for two seconds nothing happens.
And then yellow to red.
So what I would like you to notice is that when I hover before it actually kicks in during that delay
it stays green.
And then after it turns red at the end it goes back to green.
So the animation delay starts nothing nothing happens.
It doesn't change color until the delay is over at which point it goes from yellow which was the animations
zero percent.
And it goes to read at the end.
And then once it hits the end of the animation it reverts back to the state from before which is green.
OK so what I've done on the other three is you probably can infer right now is I've gone ahead and applied
an animation film mode.
So let's take a look at forward's.
So what saying animation film mode forwards does is it takes the end state the 100 percent of the animation
and it will leave.
It will linger after the animation and so let me show you here.
I hover over forwards.
Nothing happened.
It goes yellow and then red and then it stays red.
Until I'm done hovering at least and it goes back.
So one more time it starts the animation delay works just the same way but it stays red at the end.
And then the next one is backwards.
And by setting it to be backwards animation film mode backwards it will take the 0 percent value of
the animation and apply that immediately during the animation delay.
So let me show you.
I hover and it turns yellow right away but there's still a delay until the actual animation starts.
So one more time turns yellow as soon as they hover and then it waits two seconds to start the animation.
And then at the end it goes back to green and then the final option is both.
And I'll show you that here animation film mode.
Both It just combines what forwards and backwards does.
So it will turn yellow immediately and then it will stay red after the animation ends.
So it turns yellow during the delay then the animation starts about now and then it stays red afterwards.
OK.
So that's the basics of animation film mode.
I'd say out of all of those the only one I ever see use is forward's.
Oftentimes you have an animation you want to run one time and then you want it to stay in that end state
afterwards in which case you would use forward rather than having it snap back to the initial state.
So the final property will take a look at his animation place state and what this does is it lets you
specify whether an animation is running or if it's paused.
So it's pretty simple although I'll be honest most of the time when I end up using this is actually
through javascript where I'm manipulating this property but I'll show you a working demonstration.
So if we go to our animation direction demo change this iteration count back to infinite.
Make this a bit bigger too.
OK.
So we have them running.
What I can do if I scroll down.
Let's add something new here where I hover over any of these boxes.
It should pause the animation so I'll just do box hover and then the property is animation place state
and then paused.
So now when I hover over any box it will pause the animation.
Now the trick is just hovering.
OK.
There you go.
I caught one and you'll see it does posit it doesn't restart the animation from the beginning it restarts
from where it was paused.
So it's different than just completely starting the entire animation over or removing the animation
and adding it again.
Which is why it's useful for doing this.
Sometimes in javascript there are times where you want to pause an animation and then have it resume.
Other times you want to stop an animation altogether and have it start over and to do that you can't
use animation in place state.
You need to just remove the animation and reapply it through Javascript.
So as you can see this is how play state paused works.
You could do the opposite.
So I could have it start off as paused and then when we hover I could change this to running which is
the other opposite value.
And you can see when I hover it starts running.
Yeah.
So those are the four properties I wanted to highlight.
We have iteration count which allows us to specify how many times it should run.
And the key one is infinite.
That's a very common on.
Then we've got Phil mode which is allows us to specify what happened right before and after the animation
what state should linger or not linger.
Then we've got direction should the animation run from 0 to 100 or from 100 to 0.
Or should it alternate and then place date which allows us to pause or resume the animation.
OK so those four properties in conjunction with these four are everything that you need to create CSSA
animations.
We're now going to build a simple exercise together and then afterwards I'll show you a shorthand just
like there was for transition where we can combine all of these into a single line.